Add Gemma Flex Template example (#11881)
GoogleCloudPlatform/python-docs-samples: dataflow/gemma-flex-template/README.md

# RunInference on Dataflow streaming with Gemma and Flex Templates

Gemma is a family of lightweight, state-of-the-art open models built from research and technology used to create the Gemini models.
You can use Gemma models in your Apache Beam inference pipelines with the `RunInference` transform.

This example demonstrates how to use a Gemma model running on Pytorch in a streaming Dataflow pipeline that has Pub/Sub sources and sinks. This pipeline
is deployed by using Flex Templates.

For more information about using RunInference, see [Get started with AI/ML pipelines](https://beam.apache.org/documentation/ml/overview/) in the Apache Beam documentation.

## Before you begin

> Make sure you have followed the [Dataflow setup instructions](../../README.md).

Reviewer: This relative path points to the main repo README, not the dataflow README. Suggest using absolute path
```suggestion
Make sure you have followed the [Dataflow setup instructions](/dataflow/README.md).
```

# RunInference on Dataflow streaming with Gemma and Flex Templates

Gemma is a family of lightweight, state-of-the-art open models built from research and technology used to create the Gemini models.
You can use Gemma models in your Apache Beam inference pipelines with the `RunInference` transform.

This example demonstrates how to use a Gemma model running on Pytorch in a streaming Dataflow pipeline that has Pub/Sub sources and sinks. This pipeline
is deployed by using Flex Templates.

For more information about using RunInference, see [Get started with AI/ML pipelines](https://beam.apache.org/documentation/ml/overview/) in the Apache Beam documentation.

## Before you begin

Follow the steps in this section to create the necessary environment to run this workflow.

### Enable Google Cloud services

This workflow uses multiple Google Cloud products, including Dataflow, Pub/Sub, Google Cloud Storage, and Artifact Registry. Before you start the workflow, create a Google Cloud project that has the following services enabled:

* Dataflow
* Pub/Sub
* Google Cloud Storage

> * Artifact Registry

Reviewer: This is not the complete list of services that need to be enabled. I also had to enable Compute and Cloud Build. There may also be other APIs, as I ended up referencing the Quickstart Python walkthrough which had many more APIs required that hadn't been enabled in my project yet.

Author: expanded the list

Using these services incurs billing charges.

Your Google Cloud project also needs to have Nvidia L4 GPU quota. For more information, see [GPU quota](https://cloud.google.com/compute/resource-usage#gpu_quota) in the Google Cloud documentation.

### Create a custom container

To build a custom container, use Docker. This repository contains a Dockerfile that you can use to build your custom container. To build and push a container to Artifact Registry by using Docker or Cloud Build, follow the instructions in the [Build and push the image](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/build-container-image#build_and_push_the_image) section of "Build custom container images for Dataflow" in the Google Cloud documentation.

### Create Pub/Sub topics for input and output

> To create your Pub/Sub source and sink, follow the instructions in [Create a Pub/Sub topic](https://cloud.google.com/pubsub/docs/create-topic#pubsub_create_topic-Console) in the Google Cloud documentation. For this example, create two topics, one input topic and one output topic. For input, the topic must have a subscription that you can provide to the Gemma model. 

Reviewer: This was unclear for me, and I didn't realise I needed two topics, both with linked subscriptions (I wasn't able to get messages out of the sink topic without adding a retention to the topic, which created a pull subscription for me). It might be useful to add the gcloud commands required, which means you can use the topic/subscription variables later in the dataflow invocation

Author: Made the two topic-two subscription requirement more clear, added a link to subscription creation requirements

> ### Download and save the model

Reviewer: This section needs to come before the "Create custom container" section

Author: moved

Save a version of the Gemma 2B model. Downloaded the model from [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/models/google/gemma/pyTorch/1.1-2b-it). This download is a `.tar.gz` archive. Extract the archive into a directory and name it `pytorch_model`. 

> ### Optional: Create a new virtual environment

Reviewer: I think this step is "optional" because you don't need to create a virtualenv to run the next step, however: there's no use for a local dev environment detailed in this README, so I think these two sections can be removed.

Author: removed

Click [here to create a GCS bucket](https://console.cloud.google.com/storage/create-bucket) or run the following commands:

```sh
export GCS_BUCKET="your--bucket"
gsutil mb gs://$GCS_BUCKET
```

Make sure your GCS bucket name does __not__ include the `gs://` prefix

### Create a custom container

> To build a custom container, use Docker. This repository contains a Dockerfile that you can use to build your custom container. To build and push a container to Artifact Registry by using Docker or Cloud Build, follow the instructions in the [Build and push the image](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/build-container-image#build_and_push_the_image) section of "Build custom container images for Dataflow" in the Google Cloud documentation.

Reviewer 2: question: just curious if any supported OCI image would do. Artifact Registry supports them. Then, this is more of a We've provided a sample Dockerfile to showcase building a custom container. There are other tools folks use for building containers and it's better to not imply the specific tool choice if it's not necessary. I might recommend dropping the first sentence of "To build a custom container, use Docker"

        if device == 'GPU':
            logging.info("Device is set to CUDA")
            self._device = torch.device('cuda')
        else:
            logging.info("Device is set to CPU")
            self._device = torch.device('cpu')
        self._env_vars = {}

    def load_model(self) -> GemmaForCausalLM:
        """Loads and initializes a model for processing."""
        torch.set_default_dtype(self._model_config.get_dtype())
        model = GemmaForCausalLM(self._model_config)
        model.load_weights(self._checkpoint_path)
        model = model.to(self._device).eval()
        return model
```

### Formatting DoFn

The output from a keyed model handler is a tuple of the form `(key, PredictionResult)`. To format that output into a string before sending it to the answer Pub/Sub topic, use an extra `DoFn`.

```py
class FormatOutput(beam.DoFn):
  def process(self, element, *args, **kwargs):
    yield "Key : {key}, Input: {input}, Output: {output}".format(key=element[0], input=element[1].example, output=element[1].inference)
```

## Build the Flex Template
Run the following code from the directory to build the Dataflow flex template.

> - Replace `$TEMPLATE_FILE` with a Google Cloud Storage path written as a JSON file.

Reviewer: This was unclear to me when going through these instructuons. 

The $TEMPLATE_FILE needs to be a GCS storage path, that will be used as the output for this command. The "written as a JSON file" denotes it should be a `.json` file, but given this description and the section description, I wasn't sure if this was a file I had to create with contents relating to the GCS bucket. 

A way to make this more clear might be to specify "Create a bucket" then use that value as part of the variable: `gs://$CONFIG_BUCKET/config.json` (for example).

Reviewer: You also never explicitly say to create any buckets. This is possibly one of many you need (one for the config, possibly a separate one for staging later)

Author: added instructions for creating a bucket, altered instructions for the template file path

- Set `SDK_CONTAINER_IMAGE` to the name of the Docker image created previously.
- `$PROJECT` is the Google Cloud project that you created previously. 

```sh
gcloud dataflow flex-template build $TEMPLATE_FILE \
  --image $SDK_CONTAINER_IMAGE \
  --sdk-language "PYTHON" \
  --metadata-file metadata.json \
  --project $PROJECT
```

## Start the pipeline
To start the Dataflow streaming job, run the following code from the directory. Replace `$TEMPLATE_FILE`, `$REGION`, `$GCS_BUCKET`, `$INPUT_SUBSCRIPTION`, `$OUTPUT_TOPIC`, `$SDK_CONTAINER_IMAGE`, and `$PROJECT` with the Google Cloud project resources you created previously. It might take as much as 15 minutes for the worker to start up and to begin accepting messages from the input Pub/Sub topic. 

```sh
gcloud dataflow flex-template run "gemma-flex-`date +%Y%m%d-%H%M%S`" \
  --template-file-gcs-location $TEMPLATE_FILE \

>   --region $REGION \

Reviewer: I could not use us-central1 due to capacity constraints, but trying asia-southeast1 caused knockon effects, because this invocation isn't specifying a temporary location, and a default bucket was created for me ("default_gcs_bucket_name" method in [apache_beam.io.gcp.gcsio](https://beam.apache.org/releases/pydoc/2.29.0/_modules/apache_beam/io/gcp/gcsio.html#GcsIO) according to the log files) that was invalid because the bucket name was too long due to the length of the region name. I was able to use asia-east1 to get around this issue, but I think the higher level solution is ensuring that this invocation specifies a `--temp-location` (unsure if this needs to be a parameter of gcloud or an additional `--parameters`.

Reviewer: I also think this is the cause of the [failing tests](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/python-docs-samples/pull/11881#issuecomment-2189254462). In the e2e testing, you're defaulting to us-central1, which I was having contention issues with, and checking the testing project logs, it's also having issues (I can't isolate if the logs I'm seeing are from this test or the other gemma sample, but I think it's the same issue.)

Author: the temp location change is relatively easy, just an extra flag that can share the same bucket as the staging location

  --staging-location $GCS_BUCKET \
  --parameters messages_subscription=$INPUT_SUBSCRIPTION \

>   --parameters responses_topic=$OUTPUT_TOPIC \

Reviewer: These need to be the fully qualified pubsub subscription and pubsub topic name. I received errors trying to use just the topic/subscription name.

Author: clarified

  --parameters device="GPU" \
  --parameters sdk_container_image=$SDK_CONTAINER_IMAGE \

>   --parameters dataflow_service_options="worker_accelerator=type:nvidia-l4;count:1;install-nvidia-driver:5xx" \

Reviewer: I experienced issues with this parameter ("Unrecognized parameter"). I tried declaring this in the metadata.json to bypass this issue, and this allowed this command to work, and this config showed up in the pipeline options of the job in the Cloud Console, but I'm not a Dataflow expert so I don't know if this is the correct solution. All other parameters in this command apart from sdk_container_image are declared in the metadata.json, so I'm not sure which are default accepted parameters and could not find any documentation to list such things (if they exist)

Author: yeah that was a holdover while I experimented, dataflow parameters (sdk_container_image, dataflow_service_options) don't actually need to be passed as parameters. weirdly enough some of them can be passed and parsed as parameters by the dataflow service, but not all of them. cleaned up

  --project $PROJECT \
  --worker-machine-type "g2-standard-4"
```

## Send a prompt to the model and check the response

> In the Google Cloud console, navigate to the Pub/Sub topics page, and then select your input topic. On the **Messages** tab, click **Publish Message**. Add a message for the Dataflow job to pick up and pass through the model. The Dataflow job outputs the response to the Pub/Sub sink topic. To check the response from the model, you can manually pull messages from the destination topic. For more information, see [Publish messages](https://cloud.google.com/pubsub/docs/publisher#publish-messages) in the Google Cloud documentation.

Reviewer: I did not know what to send as a message. I would suggest some sample input. 

I also had to add retention to the sink to generate a pull subscription to be able to pull responses to the job. I understand that in practice there might be follow on uses of the sink topic, but for the purposes of this example, there were additional steps needed to check for success.

Author: added a sample

## Clean up resources

To avoid incurring charges to your Google Cloud account for the resources used in this example, clean up the resources that you created.

> *   Cancel the streaming Dataflow job.

Reviewer: Unsure if it should also be archived to complete cleanup.

Author: should be okay to leave unarchived, we can add that as an optional step though

*   Delete the Pub/Sub topic and subscriptions.
*   Delete the custom container from Artifact Registry.

> *   Empty the `tmp` directory of your Google Cloud Storage bucket.

Reviewer: This was never specified to be created in the first place. Possibly could be updated to delete created buckets.

Author: updated

> # RunInference on Dataflow Streaming with Gemma and Flex Templates

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# RunInference on Dataflow streaming with Gemma and Flex Templates
```

Gemma is a family of lightweight, state-of-the art open models built from research and technology used to create the Gemini models.
You can use Gemma models in your Apache Beam inference pipelines with the `RunInference` transform.

This example demonstrates how to use a Gemma model running on Pytorch in a streaming Dataflow pipeline that has Pub/Sub sources and sinks. This pipeline

> is deployed using flex templates.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
is deployed by using Flex Templates.
```

For more information about using RunInference, see [Get started with AI/ML pipelines](https://beam.apache.org/documentation/ml/overview/) in the Apache Beam documentation.

## Before you begin

Follow the steps in this section to create the necessary environment to run this workflow.

### Enable Google Cloud services

> This workflow uses multiple Google Cloud Platform products, including Dataflow, Pub/Sub, Google Cloud Storage, and Artifact Registry. Before you start the workflow, create a Google Cloud project that has the following services enabled:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This workflow uses multiple Google Cloud products, including Dataflow, Pub/Sub, Google Cloud Storage, and Artifact Registry. Before you start the workflow, create a Google Cloud project that has the following services enabled:
```

* Dataflow
* Pub/Sub
* Google Cloud Storage
* Artifact Registry

Using these services incurs billing charges.

Your Google Cloud project also needs to have Nvidia L4 GPU quota. For more information, see [GPU quota](https://cloud.google.com/compute/resource-usage#gpu_quota) in the Google Cloud documentation.

### Create a custom container

> To build a custom container, use Docker. This repository contains a Dockerfile that you can use to build your custom container. To build and push a container to Artifact Registry by using DockerFollow, follow the instructions in the [Build and push the image](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/build-container-image#build_and_push_the_image) section of the "Build custom container images for Dataflow" page in the Google Cloud documentation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To build a custom container, use Docker. This repository contains a Dockerfile that you can use to build your custom container. To build and push a container to Artifact Registry by using DockerFollow, follow the instructions in the [Build and push the image](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/build-container-image#build_and_push_the_image) section of "Build custom container images for Dataflow" in the Google Cloud documentation.
```

### Download and save the model

Save a version of the Gemma 2B model. Downloaded the model from [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/models/google/gemma/pyTorch/1.1-2b-it). This download is a `.tar.gz` archive. Extract the archive into a directory and name it `pytorch_model`. 

### Optional: Create a new virtual environment

The Python major and minor version contained in the custom container must match the environment used for job submission. For this example, use Python version 3.10.

```
python3.10 -m venv /tmp/venv
source /tmp/venv/bin/activate
```

For more information, see [venv — Creation of virtual environments](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html).

### Install dependencies

Install Apache Beam and the dependencies required to run the pipeline in your local environment. 

```
pip install -U -r requirements.txt
```

> This example also requires having access to the base class for the Pytorch implementation of Gemma.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This example also requires access to the base class for the PyTorch implementation of Gemma.
```

```
git clone https://github.com/google/gemma_pytorch.git
pip install ./gemma_pytorch
```

> ## Code Overview

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Code overview
```

This section provides details about the custom model handler and the formatting `DoFn` used in this example.

### Custom model handler

> This notebook defines a custom model handler that loads the model by constructing a configuration object and loading the model's checkpoint from the local filesystem.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This notebook defines a custom model handler that loads the model. The model handler constructs a configuration object and loads the model's checkpoint from the local filesystem.
```

> This approach differs from Pytorch model loading process followed in the Beam Pytorch model handler, which is why a custom implementation is necessary. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Because this approach differs from the PyTorch model loading process followed in the Beam PyTorch model handler, a custom implementation is necessary. 
```

To customize the behavior of the handler, implement the following methods: `load_model`, `validate_inference_args`, and `share_model_across_processes`.

> The Pytorch implementation of the Gemma models has a `generate` method

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The PyTorch implementation of the Gemma models has a `generate` method
```

        inference_args: Optional[Dict[str, Any]] = None
    ) -> Iterable[PredictionResult]:
        """Runs inferences on a batch of text strings.

        Args:
          batch: A sequence of examples as text strings.
          model: The Gemma model being used.
          inference_args: Any additional arguments for an inference.

        Returns:
          An Iterable of type PredictionResult.
        """
        # Loop each text string, and use a tuple to store the inference results.
        predictions = []
        result = model.generate(prompts=batch, device=self._device)
        predictions.append(result)
        return [PredictionResult(x, y) for x, y in zip(batch, predictions)]

```

### Formatting DoFn

The output from a keyed model handler is a tuple of the form `(key, PredictionResult)`. To format that output into a string before sending it to the answer Pub/Sub topic, use an extra `DoFn`.

```py
class FormatOutput(beam.DoFn):
  def process(self, element, *args, **kwargs):
    yield "Key : {key}, Input: {input}, Output: {output}".format(key=element[0], input=element[1].example, output=element[1].inference)
```

## Build the Flex Template

> Run the following code from the directory to build the Dataflow flex template. Replace `$TEMPLATE_FILE` with a GCS path written as a `.json` file. Set `SDK_CONTAINER_IMAGE` to the name Docker image created earlier and `$PROJECT` is the GCP project you created earlier. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Run the following code from the directory to build the Dataflow flex template.

- Replace `$TEMPLATE_FILE` with a Google Cloud Storage path written as a JSON file.
- Set `SDK_CONTAINER_IMAGE` to the name of the Docker image created previously.
- `$PROJECT` is the Google Cloud project that you created previously. 
```

```sh
gcloud dataflow flex-template build $TEMPLATE_FILE \
  --image $SDK_CONTAINER_IMAGE \
  --sdk-language "PYTHON" \
  --metadata-file metadata.json \
  --project $PROJECT
```

## Start the pipeline

> Run the following code from the directory to start the Dataflow streaming pipeline. Replace `$TEMPLATE_FILE`, `$REGION`, `$GCS_BUCKET`, `$INPUT_SUBSCRIPTION`, `$OUTPUT_TOPIC`, `$SDK_CONTAINER_IMAGE`, and `$PROJECT` with the Google Cloud Project resources you created earlier. It may take around 15 minutes for the worker to start up and begin accepting messages from the input Pub/Sub topic. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To start the Dataflow streaming job, run the following code from the directory. Replace `$TEMPLATE_FILE`, `$REGION`, `$GCS_BUCKET`, `$INPUT_SUBSCRIPTION`, `$OUTPUT_TOPIC`, `$SDK_CONTAINER_IMAGE`, and `$PROJECT` with the Google Cloud project resources you created previously. It might take as much as 15 minutes for the worker to start up and to begin accepting messages from the input Pub/Sub topic. 
```

```sh
gcloud dataflow flex-template run "gemma-flex-`date +%Y%m%d-%H%M%S`" \
  --template-file-gcs-location $TEMPLATE_FILE \
  --region $REGION \
  --staging-location $GCS_BUCKET \
  --parameters messages_subscription=$INPUT_SUBSCRIPTION \
  --parameters responses_topic=$OUTPUT_TOPIC \
  --parameters device="GPU" \
  --parameters sdk_container_image=$SDK_CONTAINER_IMAGE \
  --parameters dataflow_service_options="worker_accelerator=type:nvidia-l4;count:1;install-nvidia-driver:5xx" \
  --project $PROJECT \
  --worker-machine-type "g2-standard-4"
```

## Send a prompt to the model and check the response

> In the Google Cloud console, navigate to the Pub/Sub topics page, and then select your input topic. On the **Messages** tab, click **Publish Message**. Add a message into the pipeline for the Dataflow job to pick up and pass through the model. The Dataflow job outputs the response to the Pub/Sub sink topic. To check the response from the model, you can manually pull messages from the destination topic. For more information, see [Publish messages](https://cloud.google.com/pubsub/docs/publisher#publish-messages) in the Google Cloud documentation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In the Google Cloud console, navigate to the Pub/Sub topics page, and then select your input topic. On the **Messages** tab, click **Publish Message**. Add a message for the Dataflow job to pick up and pass through the model. The Dataflow job outputs the response to the Pub/Sub sink topic. To check the response from the model, you can manually pull messages from the destination topic. For more information, see [Publish messages](https://cloud.google.com/pubsub/docs/publisher#publish-messages) in the Google Cloud documentation.
```

You can use Gemma models in your Apache Beam inference pipelines with the `RunInference` transform.

This example demonstrates how to use a Gemma model running on Pytorch in a streaming Dataflow pipeline that has Pub/Sub sources and sinks. This pipeline
is deployed by using Flex Templates.

For more information about using RunInference, see [Get started with AI/ML pipelines](https://beam.apache.org/documentation/ml/overview/) in the Apache Beam documentation.

## Before you begin

Follow the steps in this section to create the necessary environment to run this workflow.

### Enable Google Cloud services

This workflow uses multiple Google Cloud products, including Dataflow, Pub/Sub, Google Cloud Storage, and Artifact Registry. Before you start the workflow, create a Google Cloud project that has the following services enabled:

* Dataflow
* Pub/Sub
* Google Cloud Storage
* Artifact Registry

Using these services incurs billing charges.

Your Google Cloud project also needs to have Nvidia L4 GPU quota. For more information, see [GPU quota](https://cloud.google.com/compute/resource-usage#gpu_quota) in the Google Cloud documentation.

> 

Reviewer 4: should this have instructions where to get gemma weights? the pytorch_model folder

Author: Explained below

### Create a custom container

> To build a custom container, use Docker. This repository contains a Dockerfile that you can use to build your custom container. To build and push a container to Artifact Registry by using DockerFollow, follow the instructions in the [Build and push the image](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/guides/build-container-image#build_and_push_the_image) section of "Build custom container images for Dataflow" in the Google Cloud documentation.

Author: fixed

### Download and save the model

Save a version of the Gemma 2B model. Downloaded the model from [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/models/google/gemma/pyTorch/1.1-2b-it). This download is a `.tar.gz` archive. Extract the archive into a directory and name it `pytorch_model`. 

### Optional: Create a new virtual environment

The Python major and minor version contained in the custom container must match the environment used for job submission. For this example, use Python version 3.10.

```
python3.10 -m venv /tmp/venv
source /tmp/venv/bin/activate
```

For more information, see [venv — Creation of virtual environments](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html).

### Install dependencies

Install Apache Beam and the dependencies required to run the pipeline in your local environment. 

```
pip install -U -r requirements.txt
```

This example also requires access to the base class for the PyTorch implementation of Gemma.
```
git clone https://github.com/google/gemma_pytorch.git
pip install ./gemma_pytorch
```

## Code overview

This section provides details about the custom model handler and the formatting `DoFn` used in this example.

### Custom model handler

> This notebook defines a custom model handler that loads the model. The model handler constructs a configuration object and loads the model's checkpoint from the local filesystem.

Author: not sure what you're asking here

> This notebook defines a custom model handler that loads the model. The model handler constructs a configuration object and loads the model's checkpoint from the local filesystem.

Reviewer 2: @jrmccluskey it seems like you mean something else besides notebook here. Is this the first time notebook is being used? In other places this describes this as an example and springing the notebook description here seems confusing.

> This notebook defines a custom model handler that loads the model. The model handler constructs a configuration object and loads the model's checkpoint from the local filesystem.

Author: ah, fixed

Because this approach differs from the PyTorch model loading process followed in the Beam PyTorch model handler, a custom implementation is necessary. 

To customize the behavior of the handler, implement the following methods: `load_model`, `validate_inference_args`, and `share_model_across_processes`.

The PyTorch implementation of the Gemma models has a `generate` method
that generates text based on a prompt. To route the prompts correctly, use this function in the `run_inference` function.

```py

> class GemmaPytorchModelHandler(ModelHandler[str, PredictionResult,

Reviewer 4: having large number of code in the md. might cause an inconsistency down the road if we modify the source but not the MD. Maybe we only highlight most important points here, and send user to the source instead? We can and should have comments in the source anyway.

Author: This is a fair point, I think the emphasis in the text is on model loading being different so I think cutting the large model function and the `run_inference` call itself is fine for simplicity's sake

                 device: Optional[str] = 'cpu'):
        """ Implementation of the ModelHandler interface for Gemma-on-Pytorch
        using text as input.

        Example Usage::

          pcoll | RunInference(GemmaPytorchHandler())

        Args:
          model_variant: The Gemma model name.
          checkpoint_path: the path to a local copy of gemma model weights.
          tokenizer_path: the path to a local copy of the gemma tokenizer
          device: optional. the device to run inference on. can be either
            'cpu' or 'gpu', defaults to cpu. 
        """
        model_config = get_config_for_2b(
        ) if "2b" in model_variant else get_config_for_7b()
        model_config.tokenizer = tokenizer_path
        model_config.quant = 'quant' in model_variant
        model_config.tokenizer = tokenizer_path

        self._model_config = model_config
        self._checkpoint_path = checkpoint_path
        if device == 'GPU':
            logging.info("Device is set to CUDA")
            self._device = torch.device('cuda')
        else:
            logging.info("Device is set to CPU")
            self._device = torch.device('cpu')
        self._env_vars = {}

>     def share_model_across_processes(self) -> bool:

Reviewer 4: Do you want to explain why we do this and what are implications? perhaps:

```
# This allows us to load a large model only once per worker VM, which decreases the pipeline memory requirements.
```

Author: added

```sh
gcloud dataflow flex-template build gs://$GCS_BUCKET/config.json \
  --image $SDK_CONTAINER_IMAGE \
  --sdk-language "PYTHON" \
  --metadata-file metadata.json \
  --project $PROJECT
```

## Start the pipeline
To start the Dataflow streaming job, run the following code from the directory. Replace `$TEMPLATE_FILE`, `$REGION`, `$GCS_BUCKET`, `$INPUT_SUBSCRIPTION`, `$OUTPUT_TOPIC`, `$SDK_CONTAINER_IMAGE`, and `$PROJECT` with the Google Cloud project resources you created previously. Ensure that `$INPUT_SUBSCRIPTION` and `$OUTPUT_TOPIC` are the fully qualified subscription and topic names, respectively. It might take as much as 30 minutes for the worker to start up and to begin accepting messages from the input Pub/Sub topic. 

```sh
gcloud dataflow flex-template run "gemma-flex-`date +%Y%m%d-%H%M%S`" \
  --template-file-gcs-location $TEMPLATE_FILE \
  --region $REGION \
  --temp-location gs://$GCS_BUCKET/tmp \
  --staging-location gs://$GCS_BUCKET \
  --parameters messages_subscription=$INPUT_SUBSCRIPTION \
  --parameters responses_topic=$OUTPUT_TOPIC \
  --parameters device="GPU" \
  --sdk_container_image=$SDK_CONTAINER_IMAGE \

>   --dataflow_service_options="worker_accelerator=type:nvidia-l4;count:1;install-nvidia-driver:5xx" \

Reviewer: These parameters aren't recognised by gcloud, and aren't described in https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/dataflow/flex-template/run

```

ERROR: (gcloud.dataflow.flex-template.run) unrecognized arguments:
  --sdk_container_image=us-central1-docker.pkg.dev/$PROJECT_ID/docker/dataflow/gemma-flex:1
  --dataflow_service_options=worker_accelerator=type:nvidia-l4;count:1;install-nvidia-driver:5xx
  To search the help text of gcloud commands, run:
  gcloud help -- SEARCH_TERMS
```

Reviewer 4: > Interesting, we don't expose two pretty important service options for running GPU pipelines via flex templates then. I should be able to update the parameters to pass them through, but that's surprising

* According to https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/python-docs-samples/tree/main/dataflow/flex-templates/pipeline_with_dependencies#run-the-template, --parameters sdk_container_image works
* According to https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/reference/service-options , `--additional-experiments` should be used for service options.

Author: the former is true, the latter doesn't seem to work? dataflow gets the correct information in the UI but this error is thrown on startup:

![image](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/python-docs-samples/assets/34928439/4a090b62-b5bf-4c15-84c9-3a69fc8e544c)

This looks like a known issue based on https://github.com/google/dataflow-ml-starter/blob/main/flex/metadata.json

Reviewer 4: Discussed offline;
Can we document the reason for using 5xx? Is it a requirement for L4?

This should be Dataflow docs, but  I am not seeing this configuration option documented in https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/gpu/use-gpus#drivers  or in https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/gpu/gpu-support#availability

Author: IIRC back when I was first implementing Gemma-on-Dataflow the 5xx driver was necessary for L4s. Strange to not see any mention of 4xx vs 5xx on https://cloud.google.com/dataflow/docs/reference/service-options, that feels like a gap

Reviewer 3: I think the 5xx drivers are now the default, so we don't need to specify to use them.

Author: I'll do a test run locally to see if that's the case

Author: Confirmed that 5xx is no longer necessary
